a garbage disposer is a convenient
kitchen appliance that's easy to take
for granted until of course it stops
working hi I'm Jess oppenheim ER with
home click calm and today I'm going to
show you how to replace your old garbage
disposer for this project you'll need a
garbage disposer in this case I'll be
installing an InSinkErator disposer in
addition to that you'll need plumber's
putty a hammer and a flathead
screwdriver first of all take everything
you've been storing out from under your
sink you might want to spread an old
towel across the bottom to protect it
from any water drips that might occur
also if your old disposer is hardwired
turn off the electricity to the old
disposer circuit at the circuit box
disconnect the plumbing going out from
your disposer there will be a large pipe
that typically screws off and there may
be another smaller hose if your
dishwasher is connected to the system
the disposer is joined to the sink by a
bracket tightened by three screws loosen
up those screws until the bracket falls
away then rotate the whole disposal and
disengage it from the sink notice that
this old disposer plugs into a wall
outlet beneath the sink many homes are
wired this way if yours isn't it's not
difficult to connect your new one the
way the old disposer was simply follow
the instructions included with your
model unscrew the wiring access panel on
your old disposer remove the wire nuts
connecting the two white wires and the
two black wires and untwist the wires to
free the power cord detach the green or
bare copper ground wire set this power
core decide if you're going to use it
with your new disposer next we'll
replace the sink mountain to remove the
old one locate the ring that holds the
system in place using the screwdriver
snap it out and the other pieces should
come right off pull up the cuff from the
drain and remove any old plumber's putty
grab your new mounting hardware and
separate the pieces like you just did by
snapping off the ring next roll a fresh
half-inch rope of plumbers putty and
place it around the flange on the new
drain insert the drain in place and push
down slowly so the putty spreads out
evenly and creates
seal you can then clean off the excess
putty now assemble the mounting hardware
and use the ring to snap it into place
under the sink tighten up the three
screws to secure the hardware to the
sink now your disposer needs to be wired
in again follow the manufacturer's
instructions most disposers don't come
with the wire in plug so you can reuse
the plug from your old disposer or of
course use a new one since this disposal
is connected to the dishwasher I'll need
to find the small drain hole then using
a hammer and a screwdriver I need to tap
out the seal plug a small plastic disc
in the drain hole the new disposer
installs simply by sliding it into the
new bracket you installed and twisting
the bottom ring counterclockwise
reconnect the drain pipe to your
plumbing and attach the dishwasher drain
line check for leaks by running some
water through the sink then with the
power back on give it a whirl now that's
the sound of a job well done thanks for
watching for more information and to
check out all the best brands for your
home visit us on the web at homeclick
com
you